Hello and welcome back to the advanced course on our programming.
In today's tutorial we will learn how to add components to a list and how to delete components out of
a list.
Let's get started.
All right so we've got a list which is lists underscore our old one.
It's got three components right now it's got machine which is the name of the machine.
It's got stats which are the statistics around utilization of the machine which we have been asked for
.
So the minimum maximum mean or average and the maximum and the flag which tells us if the machine was
ever operating under 90 percent utilization in the month.
Now what we want is we want to eventually add a bit more information because we were asked for a bit
more.
Right.
So let's start by adding some dummy information just so we can see how all this works out.
So let's say I want to add just a vector or just a character.
New information how to do that.
Well I would say a list underscore are all one component and before which doesn't exist yet.
Well we don't assign it something so I would say list are all want a component for add new information
.
Run that and now I look at list on the score of one you can see that we have machine stats low threshold
And then the component before which doesn't have a name.
Makes sense we didn't give it a name.
New information.
OK.
That's number one.
That's where the first way how to add information let's say let's look at another way another way to
add a component via the dollar sign.
All right let's have let's have a look at how we can do this.
We're going to add in this vector right.
So actually it's true that we will add this one.
So this time it's something useful something that we have actually been asked for.
Unlike new information.
So let's go ahead and add that first we're going to find those hours so we want to find out the hours
where utilization is unknown.
So let's have a look at our data are all one.
Right so if I look at our A-one you'll see that here we've got most of the time it's known it's known
is known.
And then if we get to the top you'll see that here utilization is unknown in some column.
So how do we figure out those comps well are we going to use that is a function here right which we've
learned a little bit about.
And here we're going to say is an A.
And now we're going to create a filter like that are all a one dollar sign utilization.
So our A1 utilization is this column.
Right.
So that's just a column represent it as a vector then is N.A. tells us gives us a true false vector
which tells us so is true which are true because the first couple of breakers are indeed NA's in that
column and then it's false.
And so this is a filter that we're going to apply to our doorframe we're going to say nothing and this
will give us the subset of our doorframe where utilization is indeed an 8.
Now obviously we're off to the hour so we need only the hours all hours.
Rachel Zeshan is unknown.
So here we are going to say pause next time and then we're going to say we want to add this into all
this.
Right.
So that's the result.
Those are the hours where utilization was unknown for this machine.
How do we add this into a list.
Well we want to use the second method.
Why are the dollar sign.
It's very simple.
And as you probably have guessed you just need to type and list are all one.
And here we are going to use dollar sign and we're going to give that component and name right away
so you can say unknown hours.
So far on this and I look at list are all one.
You will see that I've got a new component unknown hours and this component automatically gets added
to the next available spot.
So here we specify that we want the wanted to be added into Number four here.
It was added as the next available so it's added as number five.
By the way have a look in your spare time what happens if you specify a number higher so if you specify
here 7 or 8 or 100 what will happen what will how will it added.
What will happen in between between that number and the last component you had.
It's quite an interesting little exercise for you.
Just see what happens if instead of four here you specify a much higher number anyway so moving back
we've got this list now which is slowly growing right.
It's getting bigger.
We've got machine we've got stat's low threshold and we've got some new information here.
We've got unknown hours.
Well now we realize that this new information is actually completely useless.
How do we get rid of it.
Well let's learn how to remove a component remove a component.
It's very simple it's very similar to how we've done this before with other objects so remove using
the null method.
We're going to say illest underscore our old one and then Forssell kind of similar to when you want
to remove the names of a dot a frame or Matrix.
The rows are called the names of the rows of columns of a matrix or some other object.
So basically when you're removing names of objects here we're going to use the same method and works
for removing components of a list.
So we're just going to know that.
No.
Run that.
And if I look at lists and a score of one you will see that it's gone.
Now the very important thing to notice here and I'm just going to actually type in.
Notice what happened is enumeration has shifted.
So unlike him a doorframe in a doorframe you could delete some columns in are then numeration.
So the names of the columns which are their indices they don't get shifted unless you tell them to unless
you reset them.
But with a list they do.
And that is something important to remember so if I look at list underscore are one before you will
see that it is actually even though we know that out what happened is the unknown hours which used to
be number 5 became not before.
So remember that that is a very important distinction to keep in mind when working with lists.
They react to removing components different to a doorframe.
That's fair enough because illest is not the same as a doorframe it's not it's not a structure type
of facility.
It's more of a just it just lists those elements so it just makes sense that if you remove something
from the middle you're not going to have a gap in there it just gets filled up with the element that
came next.
All right so that was important to remember.
What are we going to do now is we going to add another element Tolleson other component.
So let's just say add another component and what are we going to add.
Well we're going to add this data frame.
Finally slowly we're getting to our deliverable.
Let's add the data frame for this machine.
So we're going to say list by the way pause this video if you want to give us a go on your own.
We're going to say list dollar sign and we'll give it a name.
Dora is our old one because we've already subsidized our doorframe.
We already have this are all one.
From there we have added it in and now if we look at our list which you'll notice is it's massive It's
huge.
So basically what our does is it prints out the list in full so all of the elements.
So you've got Where are we here.
We've got machines that's low threshold.
Unknown hours.
And then you've got data and it takes up quite a lot of space here.
So what you can do is you can use the functions that we all know quite well.
You can say summary of list and the score of one and that will give you a quick summary of what you
have in your list.
You've got machine stats and tells you the left so one means that's because it's a vector of one character
.
Remember that in our Everything is a vector you can have a value just by itself is still a vector and
one just means that that vector has a of one so there's just that one word in there.
Stats has three low threshold as of one unknown.
Ours has a length of seven.
And but what's more important is that it's a POSIX CTE and a daughter has the length of four that's
just basically the number of columns and it's a data frame that it tells you that over here.
And also you can use the function list and the score of one or Esti are for structure list underscore
or one gives you a bit of a difference of like a bit of different formation here.
So for Dora it gives you that same as G.R. as it would for that same data frame.
All right so that is how we add and remove components from lists.
We're hoping for this to Tauriel.
And I look forward to seeing you on the next one.
Until then I'd be coding